## Procedure for Bootstrapping and Running a Local 'ytpa' Instance ##

### Process: Bootstrapping Step-by-Step Procedure ###

The following procedure needs to be run when initializing a local `ytpa` instance
for the first time or when returning to a running instance after a long hiatus.
Unfortunately, this entire procedure is required even in the latter case due to
a bug in the Google API services wherein projects and their associated keys
stop working after a lengthy (but variable) amount of time (see [here][ytapi-err]
for more details), so it's best to follow all of these steps unless returning
to a `ytpa` project after a month or less. The bootstrapping process is as follows:

1. Navigate to the [Google API homepage](https://console.developers.google.com/apis) and
   create a new project to host the `ytpa` key. The name is arbitrary, but something
   containing the `ytpa` title is recommended for bookkeeping.
2. Navigate to the [Google API Library page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/library)
   and activate the 'YouTube Data API' and 'YouTube Analytics API' from this launchpad.
3. Navigate to the [Google API Credential page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials)
   and create a new API key. This key can be bound to just the aforementioned APIs through
   additional configuration, but will work for all enabled APIs by default.
4. Generate a local copy of the `ytpa/conf/config.js.dist` file (e.g. `ytpa/conf/config.js`).
5. Copy the character string assigned to the newly generated API key into the local config
   file generated by the previous step and assigned it to the `ytpa.config.appid` variable.

### Process: Running a Local 'ytpa' Instance ###

Fortunately, once an API key has been configured and set, running the project is
fairly straightforward. The process for 

1. If it isn't already installed on the host machine, install some version of `python`;
   any version 2 and above should work.
2. Set up a local server to host the `ytpa` application instance by executing the command
   `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000` in the base directory of the project hierarchy.
3. In an open web browser, navigate to the URL `localhost:8000` to view the `ytpa` instance.

### Resources ###

The information for this listing was pulled from the following resources:

- [Stack Overflow: YouTube API V3 Access Not Configured][ytapi-err]
- [YouTube Analytics/Reporting APIs: Creating Keys][ytapi-keys]
- [YouTube API Samples][ytapi-ex]

[ytapi-keys]: https://developers.google.com/youtube/reporting/guides/registering_an_application#Create_API_Keys
[ytapi-ex]: https://github.com/youtube/api-samples
[ytapi-err]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/54456853
